Pete Way, UFO:

We hit it off with Rush more or less straight away, which was a first for
us.  They didn’t mind if we made jokes about music or Stage gear, or our
extra-curricular activities. But the, at the time the three of them were
playing these elaborate prog-rock epics and did step out on stage in
Japanese kimonos.  In particular, Geddy Lee, their bassist and singer, and
guitarist Alex Lifeson were a joy to be around.  For years afterwards, I
would go round to Geddy’s house whenever we were in Toronto.  I would have
our tour bus park at the end of his road and used to move all the bloody
awful Yes albums from the front to the back of his record collection.
Geddy once told me that I fell off the stage mid-song during one show on
that tour.  I don’t recall do doing so, but it's entirely possible. There
were also plenty of unintended theatrics that went on during the Rush show.
They would use so much dry ice that Phil and I were able to crawl around
onstage unseen while they were playing. Michael and I would also on
occasion finish their set off for them. Their road crew would hand us their
guitars and the two of us would bash out the last crescendo of notes from
the side of the stage, while Geddy and Alex buggered off back to their
dressing room.

Geddy Lee, Rush

You know, to be frank, I don’t remember Pete ever coming
to visit me at my home in Toronto. I do, though remember him falling off
the stage on two occasions on that tour. The second time the three of us in
Rush were sat talking in our dressing room and Pete’s bass just vanished
from the stage. It was like, "Uh-oh, Pete's gone over the edge again."  But
everybody partied back then; we were all of us younger and making the most
of our opportunity to be out on the road.

That tour was my introduction to UFO and their music. They were all very
friendly, but you couldn't help but notice that they would all be in their
cups, shall we say, and before every show. They would pound a few drinks
and then hit the stage flying. That was their thing. I recall us doing one
show in a dry county in Texas, which meant there was no alcohol allowed the
building. We were backstage and I’d hear the UFO guys bitching and moaning
about not having any booze.  I looked out of our dressing room window into
the car park, and there they were all in their stage gear, brown bagging it
out of the boot of their car.  Hey, necessity is the mother of adventure.

They were also always insulting each other for the sake of humour.  That
soon extended to us, which I took to be a good sign and a compliment.  We
used to play the song Xanadu at the time, and yes, all kinds of dry ice
would come on stage. Pete and Phil Mogg would stand at the side of the
stage and yell things about honeydew and melons at us, because one of the
lines in the song goes "I have dined on honeydew".  On one occasion, they
even snuck up on stage and nailed a pair of slippers beside my foot pedals.
There the slippers were when the dry ice dissipated, I guess to go along
with my kimono.

Pete and I spent a lot of time together on the tour and I enjoyed his
company a lot. He was, of course, a very different kind of musician to me.
He was this guy in skin-tight pants with his shag haircut and playing his
big Thunderbird bass. He had a typical Thunderbird sound, too, with a
really heavy bottom end. He described it to me once as "three-quarters
nice, one quarter not very nice".

Whenever Pete's name comes up between the three of us today we all smile.
He was a lot of fun to be around, but also very sweet.  He truly was a
wouldn't-hurt-a-fly kind of guy and dedicated to his music.  And he was
very rock and roll. I was on our tour bus one time and listening to the new
Bill Bruford solo album, which had just then come out.  There was a great
bass player on that record named named Jeff Berlin, and it was pretty
complex sort of jazz-rock. Pete came stumbling around the bus and was just
appalled at the sound of it.  He sat down beside me and said, as if in
profound pain, "Glee", which he used to call me, "don't listen to this, it
isn't rock and roll." You know, Pete's a rocker at heart and he's remained
true to that from the music that he's played to the way he's lived his
life.

